# R analysis: Quantification UAC signals in greenhouse *Pinus* spp.

This repository contains all the R code used in

**Assessing the effects of branch cutting on plants in experimental palaeoecology: a case study on quantifying ultraviolet absorbing compounds (UACs) in Pinus spp.**

by (author list and affiliations to be updated)

## Installation of required packages

To implement the manuscript code, you will also need to have installed the following libraries:

-   baseline
-   doSNOW
-   ggplot2
-   here
-   opusreader
-   patchwork
-   photobiology
-   pls
-   prospectr
-   RColorBrewer
-   reshape2
-   showtext
-   stringr

These libraries can be installed using, e.g., :\
`install.packages("ggplot2")`  
But a few packages need to be installed from GitHub:   
`if (!require("remotes")) install.packages("remotes") remotes::install_github("pierreroudier/opusreader")`

## Respository Format

The repository provides a set of folders:

Code_R --- the R code used to generate the results in the paper.  
Data_R --- folder containing the raw data with self-describing subfolders and filenames.  
Figures_R --- figures generated by R code (and used in the manuscript).  
Output_R --- outputs (tables and other types of dataset) generated by R code.  
Packages_R --- local packages used in R code

The code to perform all the analyses (and to generate the figures used in the manuscript) can all be found here. You will need to ensure you have downloaded all the folders and subfolders. To run the code, you should set the working directory to be the main folder. You can then source the individual analyses, e.g.,  
`source("Code_R/FTIR_v1.0_Raw_Spectra_Procesing.R")`

## R scripts

All scripts can be found in the Code_R/ directory. The only scripts which need to be directly runs/sourced are entitled e.g. 001\_, 002\_, ... all others scripts are called within these master scripts. These master scripts are all independent of one another (they are self-contained).

### Read raw FTIR spectra (OPUS .O), and apply smoothing, baseline correction and standardisation on the raw spectra

-   001_FTIR_Reading_And_Correction.R

The original FTIR spectra collected from NMBU lab were in format of OPUS, which require a conversion to readable and editable format. The FTIR spectra used further for all analysing purposes in the manuscript were firstly corrected following the routes of: Smoothing(savitzkyGolay, m = 0, p = 2, w = 11) and baseline correction (baseline.modpolyfit, degree = 3, tol = 0.00002, rep = 100). A z-score standardisation was lastly performed.

### Auto-identify FTIR peaks, peak quality checking, and peak statistics output

-   002_FTIR_Peak_Identify_Statistics.R

Read the standardised spectra and identify all peaks in each spectrum. I use some codes (integraated in the function of autoPeakDecQuan) following these routes: 1. Identify all local maximum in a spectrum, which could potentially (but not exactly) be a peak (can be named 'candidate peak'), referring to the function of 'find_peaks' in 'photobiology' package 2. For each spectrum, and acting on the (candidate) peaks' positions , the codes search for boundary for each candidate peak point by point, starting from the exactly signal local maximum (position of the candidate peak), and moving to both left and right direction relative to the local maximum. *I define the 'boundary' of a peak as 'the point where the decreasing or increasing trend between adjacent two points disappears consecutively for given times (this is set as 3 points here).* 3. Basing on the peak boundaries found in the last step, the codes calculates the peak statistics (peak height, peak area, peak width), and will exclude peaks with width wider or narrower than the expected value (both can be set though corresponding variables of the function). For the qualified peaks passing the width examination, a matrix containing thier statistics will be finally output.

### Combine GCMS signals with FTIR peak statistics

-   003_GCMS_FTIR_Combination.R

For identified peak information in each FTIR spectrum (including FTIR duplicates from the same sample), it is combined with the corresponding GCMS UAC signal from the same sample

### Patrial Least Square (PLS) Regression analysis

-   004_PLS.R

PLS analysis is based on identifed and checked peaks, where 14 peaks are input as variables in PLS model. Some peaks were not used for PLS analysis as they are not identifed in every spectrum. This script also output the figures about PLS model

### Combine Malformation results with GCMS signals and FTIR PLS fitted values

* 005_Malformation_GCMS_FTIR_Combination.R   

Collaborate malformation rates in different samples with corresponding GCMS signals and FIT PLS fitted values from the same samples

### GCMS UAC signals and FTIR PLS fitted values

-   Plot_GCMS_FTIR.R

### Malformation rates between control and UV treatments

-   Plot_Malformation.R

### Significance test (student-t) between control and UV treatments

-   Table_Strudent_t_Test.R

This analysis is to test the significance of GCMS/FTIR signals between different subgroups (UV/CONTROL, donor plants 1-6, cuttings/cultivars). Student-t test is used.
